---
layout: project
title:  "Lab 0: Autograder Setup and Intro to C++"
date:   2019-1-20
due: 2019-1-24
permalink: /labs/0
categories: assignment
---

This lab will be graded via the autograder. You must email me to get
your autograder credentials.

## Setting up a VM

If you are on Windows or want to set up a virtual machine, [watch the
video here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w7wLvLb2qCw&t=1018s)

If you are using Mac OSX consider setting up
[Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)--I use it and it is often very simple.

## Getting the autograder

Follow the steps at the [end of the previous
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w7wLvLb2qCw&t=1018s). Get the
autograder by cloning the submission repo
[here](https://github.com/kmicinski/submit). Be sure to read the
instructions in that repository (in particular, read about how to make
sure it's working).

## Get lab0

Create a *new* directory named `lab0` somewhere on your system (e.g.,
`~/projects/lab0`) and copy submit.py into that directory. Then run
submit.py and follow the steps it shows. You will need your
credentials (again, you get those by emailing me).

The autograder uses the directory name to decide which project to
download, so if you want to be working on lab 0, make sure your
directory is named `lab0`.

## Completing the lab

The task in the lab asks you to reverse an array. This should not be
too hard to figure out, and I show hints of it if you watch the intro
to C++ video. Basically, you want to loop over half the array and
exchange things at the right positions. As a hint, division in C++
truncates down (so `3/2 == 1` for integers).

If you need more help completing your lab, please be sure to read Part
1 of the [C++ Tour](https://isocpp.org/tour) (book available as free
PDF).

## Running the lab yourself

If you want to test your program as you go, you first need to compile
it:

    # Compile to a binary file named reverse
    clang++ reverse.cpp -o reverse

And then run via...

    # Actually run reverse
    ./reverse

Then you can type in a list of numbers. To end your typing type in
control-D (i.e., hit D while holding down control). Your program will
then calculate the output and print it.

You can also add extra tests of your own. Feel free to look at
`test.py` to see how the tests are being run.
